

Currently, everything seems to be 2.0. Web 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, and there's even "Life 2.0" with the virtual world offered by "Second Life". But what is all this hype really about?

If you follow Tim O'Reilly - who coined the term "Web 2.0" in 2004 - the "new Web" is not so much dependent on a new technology but on a new attitude. Web 2.0 therefore has no clearly defined set of technological requirements, but is rather a description of a fundamentally new way to use the World Wide Web.

On the new Web, all users are active members: they interact instead of consuming passively. Users build networks, make contacts, discuss, create, and comment. They are able to interact in real-time, world-wide and in such numbers that the sheer mass of active members (users) creates its own dynamic.

Understood in this sense, one may interpret the new "Web 2.0" as the renaissance of the original idea of an interactive web, just as it was intended at the time the Web was invented in the early 90s: every user of the system was both reader and author, with the software supporting both the reading and writing of content directly "onto" the Web. However, the great success of the Mosaic browser, which introduced graphics but possessed no editing functionality, lead to the concept of "writing the Web" being neglected for many years.

Web 2.0 is thus in a nutshell the rebirth of the "read/write web" - as Tim Berners-Lee, the Web's inventor, has often referred to its ideal form - and can be summarized as exhibiting the following key characteristics:



Active participation of users:

Users create content
Users rate, comment and evaluate
Users create taxonomies by using tagging (or similar methods)


Users interact, creating "collective wisdom":

Making contact
Co-authoring content
Sharing content with other users


A highly interactive experience:

Lightweight, easy-to-use web applications
Rich (feature-packed) thin (light-weight) clients, utilizing technologies such as AJAX
Many require nothing more than a web browser to run


Services are "open":

Open APIs for creating "mashups", the Web viewed as a platform
Easy syndication of content via RSS and search engines
Many ways to access content: human-readable URLs, shorter URLs, permanent URLs


Service- (rather than product-) oriented approach:

Always beta
Frequent updates
Quick launch of new services

Web 2.0 is the attitude that makes key cutting-edge concepts such as the "wisdom of crowds" or the "long tail" truly work as business models.

CoreMedia Social Software Extension gives you the tools to take this attitude to your web presence.