

CoreMedia SSE provides the following features to cover the needs of a broad range of applications:

Comments: User-generated content and editorial content can be commented on by logged-in, registered users. Users may mutually report each other's comments as inappropriate. A browser-based frontend enables the editorial staff to approve or reject user-generated content.

Comments with file attachments: It is possible to attach any kind of data file, such as an MP3 audio file or a text document, for example.

Frontend for approval: User-generated content can be approved via the extensible Approval Management View. This extensibility enables the realization of a variety of use cases, such as content approval prior to publication or content removal after being reported as inappropriate. The frontend has been especially designed to support simultaneous mass content approval.

Tagging and Tag clouds: Tags can be assigned to any kind of content (including comments, media files or text, for example), and both user-generated content and editorial content items can be tagged. Predefined query results provide weighted tags to create tag clouds.

Rating/Voting: Any kind of content can also be rated, although in practice, this generally involves ratings being used (with comments) to enrich editorial content. Rating and voting involves users rating content using a five star system or by simply voting the content as "helpful" or "unhelpful". The total votes for an article can be queried (and optionally restricted to helpful/unhelpful). In addition, an option is also available for querying a voting histogram for a certain content item. This might result "4 x helpful, 5 x not helpful" being returned for a particular content x. Finally, content can also be returned sorted by its average rating.

Reputation: Voting other users' comments as helpful/not helpful contributes to the reputation of a user: the system calculates reputation based on the number of comments a user writes that are voted as "helpful" by other users. More helpful comments equals a higher reputation.

Neighborhood: The CoreMedia Recommendation Engine determines "neighborhood relations" between users, based on the ratings a user makes on other people's comments. Similar ratings lead to a strong neighborhood relation while dissimilar ratings lead to weaker relations. Implicit ratings can also be taken into account when making this calculation. An implicit rating is made for example when a user clicks the teaser of an article for further reading.

Recommendations/Collaborative Filtering: The CoreMedia Recommendation Engine calculates recommendations on the basis of the neighborhood relation mentioned above. The system recommends content to users if their "close" neighbors have rated it positively, and if they themselves have not yet rated it. This mechanism greatly increases the value of a site for users and tends to lead to much greater click-through rates and improved user loyalty. Another term for such a recommendation process is "collaborative filtering". The Recommendation Engine is a high-performance component and can also accept rating algorithms other than the default one.

RSS- and Atom-Feeds: CoreMedia SSE supports the creation of RSS- and Atom feeds for both editorial and user-generated content.

Search: The integrated CoreMedia Search Engine enables quick and easy full text search through user-generated content and user profile data.

Profile Management: CoreMedia SSE comes with integrated profile management capabilities. Profiles can be attached to users and are extensible on a per-project basis to include further custom profile metadata.

Frontend User Management: Using the User Management View it is possible to search for, block and delete users; this view can also be used to add or remove users from groups. The user management feature set can be individually modified.

Authentication: The authentication mechanisms for SSE can be adapted as desired. 

Initially provided authentication strategies include:

CoreMedia CMS user repository
separate LDAP server, such as Microsoft's Active Directory
CoreMedia SSE user management

Horizontal Scalability: The system can be scaled by adding new CAE instances in order to increase overall reliability and performance.

Session-Tracking: It is possible to show the number of users currently online. 

Access Rights: It is possible to restrict access at different levels; one scenario would be the establishment of access groups for certain application features, for example.