

Let's assume the following:

G2 is a subgroup of G1, 
F2 is a subfolder of F1 and 
the document type ShortArticle is a subtype of Article. 

Users of group G2 have no EDIT rights on articles in folder F1 but DELETE rights. In subfolder F2 there are no EDIT and DELETE rights for articles but APPROVE rights. And finally there are no DELETE and APPROVE rights for documents of type ShortArticle in F1, but READ, EDIT and PUBLISH rights. There are a lot of conflicting situations, e.g:
A user of group G2 wants to edit or delete an article document directly in folder F1.
A user of group G1, not G2, wants to edit, approve or delete an article document in subfolder F2.
A user of group G1, not G2, wants to edit, approve, delete or publish a short article document in subfolder F1.

These conflicts are resolved by the definition, that a more specific rule takes precedence over a less specific rule. A rule r1 is more specific than a rule r2 if and only if

SP1.)  The group in rule r1 is a subgroup of the group in r2

SP2.)  The groups are equal and the resource in rule r1 is located inside the folder of rule r2

SP3.)  The groups and the resources are equal and the resource type in rule r1 is a subtype of the resource type in rule r2

Rules are not merged as can be seen from the definition. If we apply the definition, we get the following conflict resolutions for the three examples above:
G2 is a subgroup of G1. From SP1 it follows that the user in group G2 who wants to edit or delete an article document directly in folder F1, has the rights to READ and DELETE, but not to EDIT.  
F2 is located in F1. From SP2 it follows that the user in group G1 who wants to edit, approve or delete an article document in subfolder F2, has the rights to READ and APPROVE, but not to EDIT and DELETE.
ShortArticle is a subtype of Article. From SP3 it follows that the user, who wants to edit, approve, delete or publish a short article document in subfolder F1, has the rights to READ, EDIT and PUBLISH, but not to DELETE and APPROVE.

A rule that is preceded by another rule is said to be shaded. A rule is called effective if it is applicable and not shaded. The effective rights of a group, a resource and a resource type are the union of the rights of the effective rules. To explain this, look at the following rules table: