

Create query

To create a query, proceed as follows:
Open a Query window by selecting Window|New Query window from the menu bar.

3* Now create your user-defined query, which you can limit in terms of:

Document types
Search criteria

3* The search criteria depend on the fields which are defined for the particular document type (e.g. heading, date, text, etc.). In selecting search criteria you can specify the search for e.g. approved, published or deleted documents. You can combine search criteria with each other by adding other search criteria to the query.
2#
Limit the query to a specific document type by selecting the desired type from the Document Type list field, or select All document types


Add search criteria by selecting a search criteria from  the Property list.



3* A new search criterion is added under the selection field for document types.
4#
Select the field of the document which should apply during the query in the Property selection field.


Give the value which this field should have in the entry field to the right. In this way it is possible to combine any number of search criteria with each other.



Once a query has been set up, it can be saved and, at a later point in time, loaded again and performed.

Select date for search criterion

For a search criterion containing a date (e.g. approval date) you can enter the date directly or use the calendar as follows:
Select the search criterion by a mouse click into the date field.
Click  in the tool bar.

The calendar opens up.
3#
Click the appropriate date and close the calendar.

Insert resource for search criterion

For a search criterion containing a resource (e.g. path), you can insert a resource as follows:
Double-click the three dashes behind the search criterion.
Choose the desired resource from the opening resource chooser.
Click [Choose].

or
Select the resource from the overview window.
Copy the resource to the clipboard by clicking  on the tool bar.
Select the search criterion by a mouse click into the resource field.
Paste the resource by clicking  on the tool bar.

Remove resource from search criterion

To remove a resource from a search criterion, you can either directly insert a new resource or remove the old resource as follows:
Select the search criterion by a mouse click into the resource field.
Click  on the tool bar.

The resource will be removed from the search criterion. 

Remove search criterion

Conversely, search criteria can be deleted as follows:
Mark the search criterion to be deleted by clicking on it with the mouse
Delete the search criteria by clicking the Remove condition symbol from the tool bar.

The next table describes the search criteria you can use.