

 

Menu Item 

Sub Items 

Function 

Create Document 

all system resource types and project-specific document types 

Creates a new document of the chosen typen in the current folder. 

Create Folder 

 

Creates a new folder in the current folder. 

New workflow 

project-specific number and type of workflows 

Starts a new workflow of the chosen type. 

Open 

 

Opens the selected document in a document window. 

Check out 

 

Check out a document for editing (status and current owner visible to all users). 

Revoke check out 

 

Undo the check out of a document. The document is accessible for others again.

Attention! This undoes all changes of the current version 

Check in 

 

Check in applies changes and make them available to all other users. Rename  Renames the selected resource via dialog box (double naming prohibited across all documents also of different types within the same folder) 

Save 

 

Saves the current changes. Approve  Direct approval of a resource. This function must be enabled. Revoke approve  Revoke approval directly. This function must be enabled. 

Delete 

 

Deletes the selected document or folder. A publication is required to make changes effective on live servers

Deleted document can just be viewed, not edited. 

Revoke delete 

 

Only not yet published resources can be restored.

(once in recycle bin after publication, resources lose all path information) Mark for withdrawal  Marks the resource for revoking of the publication. This will delete the resource on the Live Server. This change must be published to take effect. Revoke withdrawal  Revokes the mark for withdrawal. Preview publication  Simulates the publication and shows the result. 

Publish 

 

Direct publication (without workflow) of a resource. 

Preview 

 

Opens document in a browser for preview (project-specific, Internet Explorer and Netscape are default options) 

Properties 

tabs: history, rights, and rules 

Displays properties of a resource, history of editing, publication, etc. 

Close 

 

Closes the active (overview) window, but does not exit the application 

Exit 

 

Exits the CoreMedia Editor and closes all windows

