

 Attributes Optional Description id No Each uploader must be configured with a unique and persistent identifier. The identifier is used to detect new uploaders and to send them all values that were generated before the uploader was registered. You can disable the latter using the attribute receiveInit.  directory No The directory where the files should be placed. If the uploader is deployed in a PADS web application, the path is resolved relatively to the web application's base directory. If the uploader is deployed in a separate JMS receiver, the path is resolved relatively to the installation root. filter Yes Using the filter attribute you can define a regular expression that restricts the pages that should be written by this uploader. Only pages whose resource URI matches the filter expression are passed to the uploader. The default is ".*", i.e. all pages are written. receiveInit Yes 

Set this attribute to "false"  if the uploader was added to the configuration after the first start of PADS  and should not receive notifications about existing values.



If set to "true"  (default), the uploader will receive update events for all values that were generated and not yet removed by PADS before the uploader was configured. The uploader receives these events once when PADS starts and if it detects the uploader as new, i.e. if the uploader was not configured at the time of the last start of PADS.



Note that uploaders always receive notifications for updates and deletes which happen after they were added to the configuration.



This attribute has no effect if the uploader is added to the configuration before the first start of PADS or if it is configured in a JmsReceiver or DBMessageReceiver. builder Yes If you have developed custom extensions to generate other values than pages, you need to set this attribute to the scheme of the custom builder (which is mostly the builder's class name). The attribute also accepts a comma-separated list of several builder schemes. Read the CoreMedia Developer Manual for information about builders and schemes.

