

Deployment

The way of deploying portlets in an SAP Enterprise Portals is described in the portal's manual. Below you will find a "quick start" description for the SAP Enterprise Portal 5 which you may follow as logged in portal administrator.

Upload

It's assumed that you have the PDK (Portal Development Kit) installed in your portal.

Change to Java Development | Tools | PRT Admin Console
Upload the portlet archive ./portlet/sap-ep/com.coremedia.cms.portal.par

Installation of the content portlet.
Change from Content Administration to any folder. Select this folder.
Change to Context Menu | New from PAR | iView: Choose com.coremedia.cms.portal. Click Next.
Choose content. Click Next.
Enter any iView Name and iView ID as well as Master Language  .
Press Finish. Click Close Wizard.
"Double click" a page where the iView should be placed.
Select the iView. Select Add iView to Page | Delta Link from context menu ("right mouse button")
Click Save.

Installation of the navigation portlet.
Change from Content Administration to the above used folder. Select this folder.
Context Menu | New from PAR | iView : Choose com.coremedia.cms.portal  . Click Next.
Choose navigation. Click Next.
Enter any iView Name and iView ID as well as Master Language  . Click Finish . Click Close Wizard.
"Double click" the page where the content portlet is placed already.
Select Dynamic Navigation on Display.
Select the navigation iView. Context Menu | Add to Dynamic Navigation.
Click Save.

Configuration


Change from Content Administration to the folder where the portlet is located


"Double Click" the content portlet


Select Show All from Property Category


Configure the required properties (which names start with com.coremedia.portal.portlet) which are described above


Click Save

If you are using an associated navigation portlet
"Double Click" the navigation portlet
Select Show All from Property Category
Configure the property com.coremedia.portal.portlet.homepageuri  by setting the same value than in the content portlet.
Configure the property com.coremedia.portal.portlet.navigation  by setting it to the associated content portlet's context name, such as pcd:portal_content/myrole/myworkset/mypage/myportlet. This location is the concatenation of the containing page's PCD Location (e.g. pcd:portal_content/myrole/myworkset/mypage) and the content portlet's ID (e.g. myportlet). The content portlet's context name is also printed of in the debug section of the portlet (Tab: Application, key: portlet id). Just copy and paste this id to the above mentioned property.
Click Save

Log Configuration

In order to enable logging for CoreMedia's portal component you may use the J2EE Engine Visual Administrator provided by SAP

Start the Visual Administrator and press Connect.
Change to Cluster | Server | Services | Log Configurator
Inside the Log Configurator select Runtime | Locations
Browse the tree and select com | coremedia | cms | portal
Select the desired severity ("logging level")
Click Save. Select Apply to current node only.

The log entries may be found in the default logfile.