

If your CM Servers are running on a Windows platform, register the servers as Windows service with the command cm contentserver install [-a] [-u user -p password] as described in chapter.

Start all the CM Servers with the command cm capserver start. On Windows platforms you can alternatively launch the servers from the corresponding Start menu item or from the Windows Services window (see chapter for details). When executing for the first time, this command creates the data schema from the doctypes.xml file. Depending on the file size this can take some time. Look into the contentserver.out and contentserver.log files in the var/logs directory to see system and error messages.

If your CoreMedia Workflow Servers are running on a Windows platform, register each CoreMedia Workflow Server as Windows service with the command cm workflowserver install [-a] [-u user -p password] as described in chapter.

Start the CoreMedia Workflow Servers with the command cm workflowserver start . On Windows platforms you can alternatively launch the CoreMedia Workflow Servers from the corresponding Start menu item or from the Windows Services window (see chapter for details).

Now you need to choose and upload one of the predefined workflows to the CoreMedia Workflow Server instances. You can omit this step if you have purchased a CoreMedia Workflow Server (Unlimited Edition) and want to use only your own workflows with your own workflow groups. The valid predefined workflow names are defined in Section 5.4.1. To upload one of the predefined workflows with the upload utility, execute cm upload -u admin -p <password> -n <workflow-name> and replace <password> with the password of the admin user (ID=0) and <workflow-name> with one of the names listed in Section 5.4.1. e.g. three-step-publication.xml. Be careful, if you do not have the unlimited edition, but a CoreMedia Workflow Server (Single Workflow Edition), you may upload exactly one of the predefined workflows. Your chosen workflow cannot be changed without support of CoreMedia. Please make sure to select the right workflow. The license restriction does not apply to the Global Search and Replace workflow. If you have chosen this workflow, you can later upload one of the other predefined CoreMedia workflows, but again only once.

If you want to use the Global Search and Replace workflow (recommended) you have to upload the Global Search and Replace workflow with the upload utility. Execute the command cm upload -u admin -p <password> -n global-search-replace.xml and replace <password> with the password of the admin user (ID=0). To start this workflow a user must be member of the group composer-role . If you have purchased a CoreMedia Workflow Server (Unlimited Edition), you can adapt the Global Search and Replace workflow to your needs.

If you have a CoreMedia Workflow Server (Unlimited Edition), you can continue uploading further workflows in the same way as described for the Global Search and Replace workflow in the previous step. The upload utility is described in chapter.

After successful initialization, the password of the administrator (admin) and other system users (watchdog, importer, etc.) should be changed in order to guarantee the security of the system. Go to the User Management window in the editor for this purpose (see Section 5.1.6). Make sure to update all relevant configuration files.

Later CM Server starts

Later you start the CoreMedia Server with

cm contentserver start [-r maintenance | admininstration | online]

wait, until the server is up and start the workflow server with

cm workflowserver start.

In a Windows environment you can optionally launch both servers from the corresponding Start menu items or from the Windows Services window.

For description of the options see Section. You can omit the run level argument if you want to start the servers in online mode.

The server can be stopped with

cm runlevel -r offline [-g <grace period>].

Running clients are informed in regular intervals about the server shutdown. If this method does not work, use cm contentserver stop. On a Windows platform you can optionally open the Windows Services window to stop the registered service. If you have started the server under Windows with cm contentserver run, close the DOS window with <CTRL> + <C> or with the Task Manager.

Under Unix, you can stop the workflow server with

cm workflowserver stop.

In a Windows environment you can optionally stop the workflow server in the Windows Services window. If you have started the workflow server under Windows with cm workflowserver run, you can close the DOS window with <CTRL> + <C> or the Task Manager.

To check whether the CM Server is running, try to reach the server, for example with Telnet:

telnet <serverhost> <server.http.port>

If the server is running, a connection can be established, otherwise it fails.

Start both servers before all other CoreMedia components which must communicate with them. A server restart is necessary when the database connected to the server is restarted.