

This list of links is displayed in the document window and can be edited by the following operations:

Move to top

In order to move a link in the link list to the top:
Select the link in the link list.
Move the link to the top position by choosing one of the next methods:

Select Links|To the top from the menu bar.
Select To the top from the context menu.



Move up

In order to move a link in the link list up by one position:
Select the link in the link list.
Move the link up by choosing one of the next methods:

Select Links|Move up from the menu bar.
Select Move up from the context menu.



Move down

In order to move a link in the link list down by one position:
Mark the link in the link list.
Move the link down by choosing one of the next methods:

Select Links|Move down from the menu bar.
Select Move down from the context menu.



Move to bottom

In order to move a link in the link list to the bottom:
Select the link in the link list.
Move the link to the bottom by choosing one of the next methods:

Select Links|To the bottom from the menu bar.
Select To the bottom from the context menu.



Cut

To remove a link from the link list and copy it to the clipboard:
Select the link in the link list
Remove the link by choosing one of the two possibilities:

Select Links|Cut from the menu bar
Select Cut from the Context menu

Create new document and link to it

To create a new document and paste it into the link list, proceed as follows:
Mark the link after which the new link should be pasted.
Create a new document, using one of the following options:

From the menu bar select Links|Create Document...
From the context menu select Create Document...


In the toolbar click .


A dialog for file creation opens up.
3#
Enter the data and click [Create].

The document has been created and inserted in to the link list.

Paste (before)

To paste a link from the clipboard into the link list before the currently marked link:
Mark the link before which the new link should be pasted.
Paste the new link by choosing one of the next methods:

Select Links|Paste (before) from the menu bar
Select Paste (before) from the Context menu



Paste (after)

To paste a link from the clipboard into the link list of a document after the currently marked link:
Mark the link after which the new link should be pasted.
Paste the new link by choosing one of the two possibilities:

Select Links|Paste (after) from the menu bar
Select Paste (after) from the Context menu



Paste (with selection dialog)

To paste a link to any document (which you can newly create here) into a document:
Mark the link after which the new link should be pasted.
Open the selection dialog by choosing one of the two possibilities:

Select Links|Paste (with chooser) from the menu bar
Select Paste (with chooser) from the Context menu

A selection dialog box opens: