

Header

The header row displays the document type icon and the document name.

Middle Column

The top of the middle column contains two orange buttons and a counter display. The button above the counter display decreases the currently selected difference chunk by one. The button below the counter display increases the currently selected difference chunk by one. The counter display shows two numbers, the currently selected difference chunk and the total number of differences found for the two document versions. If a user clicks on a button, the number in the counter display is updated and another difference chunk in the two document versions is highlighted with orange background color.

Left Column

The left column consists of two parts, a toolbar and the first document version. The toolbar contains the following components:

version state icon: displays the current document state
chooser for the first document version: if a different version is selected with the chooser the window will automatically load the new version with its differences.
highlight-changes toggle button: when clicked all differences are displayed with a different background color. When clicked a second time the background highlighting disappears again.
show-changes-only toggle button: when clicked only the changes are displayed and not the whole version. In this state the highlight changes button is disabled, as it does not make sense. When clicked a second time the whole version is displayed again.

The first document version is displayed below the header. Depending on the state of the show-changes-only button either the whole version or only the changes are displayed. When the user clicks with the mouse on a difference chunk, this chunk will become the currently selected chunk.

Right Column

The right column displays the second document version. The layout is nearly the same as for the left column, only the show-changes-only button in the header is missing. The user can decide if the left column displays a higher version, a lower version or the same version (which doesn¿t make much sense) as the version displayed in the right column.