

 Menu items Sub items Functions New Workflow... project-specific number and type of workflows Starts a new workflow of the chosen type. Open in Explorer  Opens the document in the explorer window. Check out  

Checks out a document for editing. Already approved documents open an "undo approval" dialog box.

yes: no approved version available.

no: approved version keeps state and will be published no matter how many later unapproved versions exists. Revoke check out  Undo the check out of a document. Document is accessible for others again. Attention! This undoes al changes of the current version. Check in  Checks in the document and saves all changes. Delete  Delete the selected document or folderpublication required to make changes effective on live serversdeleted document can just be viewed, not edited. Revoke delete  Only not yet published resources can be restored(once in recycle bin after publication, resources lose all path information) Save  save the changed document. If you revoke the check out of a document all changes since the last check out will be deleted. You have to "Check in" a document to create a new version of the document and to persist the changes. Rename  Renames the selected resource via dialog box (double naming prohibited across all documents also of different types within the same folder). Preview  Opens document in a browser for preview (project-specific). Approve  Direct approval of a resource. This function must be enabled. Revoke approve  Revoke approval directly. This function must be enabled. Mark for withdrawal  Marks the resource for revoking of the publication. This will delete the resource on the Live Server. This change must be published to take effect. Revoke withdrawal  Revokes the mark for withdrawal. Preview publication  Simulates the publication and shows the result. Publish  Direct publication (without workflow) of a resource. Difference  Open the difference view with two versions of the document Preview  Opens a document in a browser for preview (project-specific, Internet Explorer and Netscape are default options)  Properties  Shows properties of a resource, history of editing, publication, etc. Close  Closes the current window, but does not exit the application.

