

Accessibility means to design websites, that can be used by people with disabilities, such as deafness or blindness. This chapter contains no basic introduction into the legal and technical requirements for accessibility, but shows how you can met the main requirements as described, for instance, by the  "Barrierefreie Informationstechnik Verordnung" (see http://bundesrecht.juris.de/bitv/index.html) or the "Checklist of Checkpoints for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0" (see http://www.w3.org) using CoreMedia CMS.

Requirements

The requirements for accessible websites can be divided into three main blocks:

Usage of valid markup language
Offering equivalent information for binary content like images and audio files
Offering special information in rich text, which can be used by screenreaders for example

Usage of valid markup language

The W3C checklist states, for example, the following points:

14.1 Use the clearest and simplest language appropriate for a site's content
12.1 Title each frame to facilitate frame identification and navigation

CoreMedia CMS uses JSP-templates to create web pages. So, you are free to create valid and accessible sites. Content from CoreMedia CMS can be transformed into any required output format.

Offering equivalent information

The W3C checklist states, for example, the following points:

1.1 Provide a text equivalent for every non-text element...
2.1 Ensure that all information conveyed with color is also available without color...

In order to reach blind people for example, you have to offer a description for each image used on your website. This description can be read out by a screen reader. Due to its configurable and object-oriented document type model it is easy to store this descriptive information along with the original image. You may, for instance, create a document "Image" which contains BLOB properties for the original image, a version for color-blind people and a textual representation. You can easily reach all these versions of the image from your JSPs.

Offering special information in rich text

The W3C checklist states for example the following points:

4.1 Clearly identify changes in the natural language of a document's text and any text equivalents
3.7 Mark up quotations.

These requirements are different from the previous ones. It requires additional information - such as the language or the source of a quotation - in the rich text. For some of the necessary information, the CoreMedia Editor and WebEditor offer out-of-the-box support via entry forms and menus. For other information, you have to add your own styles to the editor.

The following table lists the out-of-the-box options relevant for accessible websites. CoreMedia CMS stores the content of rich text fields in an XML format which is defined by the coremedia-richtext-1.0.dtd. Use an unparser to convert CoreMedia rich text XML elements into valid HTML. You will find a description of all attribute editors of an element in the User Manual.