

The following issues are important for both In-Site Analytics and Analytics Dashboard.

What Events Should be Tracked?  

By default the system will log and track all content and page views generated by the site, except for renderings of blobs.  However, some of these requests may not provide relevant business information.  Requests for supporting objects, such as style sheets (CSS files) and JavaScript libraries may not come directly from your users and therefore might not tell you anything useful about end user activity.   

Note that the CoreMedia Tracking Engine separates Robot views, so called non-seen traffic, from human visits to give you more significant reports.

CoreMedia Analytics provides mechanisms you can use to modify, include, and/or exclude the events written in the source logs.

See the Administration and Operations Manual, section "Reference of CoreMedia Analytics", subsection "Configuration in tracking.properties"  for the use of the tracking.filter.exclude.* and tracking.filter.include.* property settings.  These allow explicit inclusion and/or exclusion of events by simple regular expressions. You can also develop a custom LogFilter implementation, if needed.

Are all Tracked Parameters in the Right Format?    

By default the parameters for each event written in the log files are taken directly from HTTP request information.  However, these might not be sufficient for your reporting purposes.  For example, if your application uses URL-rewriting you may wish to modify the request information in the eventlog before it is included in the analysis.  The CoreMedia Analytics Engine provides Strategy Interfaces that can be used to modify the interpretation of the source logs.

See sections and section for a complete discussion of how to use these strategies to modify how information is written in to the log files.  

How Are Sessions/Visits Being Defined?  

The concept of a "session" or a "visit" is fundamental to how both In-Site Analytics and Dashboard reports display information.  (See section for further definition of "session".)  By default, the Analytics Engine assumes that a "visit" has ended when 30 minutes have passed since the last content or page view event occurred.  However this may not properly reflect your site's normal usage.  For example, for a call center intranet, each call center agent might make one site information lookup every 10 minutes. Based on the default definition, each user might have one eight hour session per day.  For Dashboard Analytics that gives you a very low level of visits per day; for In-Site Analytics Click-through rates would be useless for any time interval less than several hours. You can change this behavior with the property 

workflow.server.managers.aggregator.session.timeout.

See the Administration and Operations Manual, Section "Configuration in workflowserver.properties" for the usage of the workflow.server.managers.aggregator.session.timeout property.



