

The CoreMedia Analytics Engine consists of multiple parts that must be installed separately:

one tracking component in every delivery CAE for providing access to log data;
the Object Analyzer;
the Analytics Data Aggregator;
the In-Site Analytics component in a preview CAE;
the Dashboard Analytics web application.

You have to install all parts of the Analytics Engine to get the full functionality.

Except for click tracking, you must configure a connection to the Analytics Engine database. As long as there are no name conflicts due to document type tables, this may be the same database that is also used for a Content Server or a Workflow Server. Besides the usual JDBC parameters driver class, URL, name and password, you will be asked to specify a database type. This type must either oracle, db2, or mssql, indicating an Oracle database, a DB2 database, or a SQL Server database respectively.

After the installation, you have to copy the database driver JARs to the following Analytics components: Analytics Data Aggregator, Object Analyzer, Analytics Dashboard, and In-Site Analytics. Only the tracking component does not access the database directly. For web applications, the database drivers should be installed globally for the entire web application container.

The database tables will be generated during the first start of the Analytics Data Aggregator. It is not necessary to create the tables manually. However, you must make sure that the Analytics Data Aggregator is started once before all other Analytics components.

Installing In-Site Analytics

For installing a delivery CAE with enabled In-Site Analytics, follow the instructions of section. You can track a plain CAE or a CAE with Http Cache extension

Installing Click Tracking

For installing a delivery CAE with enabled click tracking, follow the instructions of section. You can track a plain CAE or a CAE with Http Cache extension

Installing the Analytics Data Aggregator

For installing the Analytics Data Aggregator, follow the instructions of section. Make sure to check the corresponding option during the installation. While setting the properties, make sure to provide the correct database configuration. 