



 Result code Symbolic name Description 0 "ok" The component works properly without errors. 10 "unexpected_error" An exception has been thrown, that is not caught and handled by the action. 11 "timeout" An action has not finished in the specified time interval. 12 "error" An action has failed with an unknown error. This is the default code for all unhandled codes in <Edge> elements. 13 "respawning_too_fast" An action was executed to often in a specified time interval (see Section 5.6.19.2.2).  21 "io_error" An action has failed with an io error. 31 "no_licenses" An action has failed because there was no free license. 32 "invalid_login" An action has failed to authenticate against the CoreMedia server. 33 "corba_error" 

An action has failed because a CORBA ORB raises a CORBA exception.

 41 "repository_error" An action has failed with an exception thrown in the CoreMedia server repository. 51 "query_malformed" An action has failed because the query was malformed. This result code indicates a serious internal error and should not happen. 52 "query_failed" An action has failed because of a database error.  61 "no_jdbc_driver" An action has failed to load the JDBC driver class. The specified driver class is either invalid, or the jar file is missing in the class path. 62 "no_connection" An action has failed to establish a database connection. This indicates an internal database error or a configuration problem. 63 "sql_exception" An action has failed to create or execute a SQL statement. The error indicates an internal database error or a configuration problem. 71 "insufficient_mode" This result code indicates that the current run level of the server is lower than the configured run level 81 "service_stopped" This result code is returned by the ServiceStatus action if the service is not running, either because it has been stopped, or because the run level of the server is too low for the service to run. 82 "service_failed" The ServiceStatus action has failed because the service was ended due to a "critical error". 83 "service_disabled" The ServiceStatus action has failed because the checked service is not activated. The service activation can depend on the server type. For example, the replicator service is only available on a slave live server. 91 "code_escalated" The ProcessStatus action has found escalated tasks in the observed process. 92 "code_toofewinstances" The ProcessStatus action  has found too few instances of the observed process definition. 93 "code_toomanyinstaces" The ProcessStatus action  has found too many instances of the observed process definition.

