

CoreMedia SCI uses file based licenses. Only server components (Content Server and Live Servers) have a license file on their own. All other components are licensed by the license file of the server they connect to. The license file will be read-in from the directory defined in the property  cap.server.license in the capserver.properties file and will be validated each time the licensed component starts. If the license is valid, the component will start properly. CoreMedia distinguishes between two kinds of licenses:



Time-based license


Limits the use of a component to a specific period of time.


IP-based license


Limits the use of a component to a specific computer, defined by its IP address and/or host name.

Both license types can define a valid SCI release using the release attribute. If you use time-based licenses, the component will not start if the license has expired. In addition, the license file defines a grace period. You receive a notification, after exceeding the grace period. You will see this warning each time you start the CoreMedia Editor and in the log files of the component. 

Both license types may limit the number of clients which can connect to the component simultaneously. This is achieved, using the following concepts:



Named user


A named user is a specific CoreMedia SCI user, known by the system. Each service connects as a user to the server. The attribute named-users defines the maximum number of users which are allowed to use a specific service.


Concurrent user


Concurrent users are users which are connected simultaneously to the server. The attribute concurrent-users defines the maximum number of named users which are allowed to connect simultaneously.


Multiplicity


A named user may connect several times to the server (e.g. start two editors). The attribute multiplicity defines the maximum number of allowed connections for a named user.

Use the utility printservices (see Section) to get these information and the utility usedlicenses (see section) to free used licenses. If the built-in user admin (user ID 0) has no open sessions, that user may log in to the Content Server even if the licenses are otherwise exhausted. This makes it possible to start the utilities for recovering from a license shortage in any case.

Example: