

 Task Involved chapters Backup the system 

CoreMedia SCI stores content in databases and holds configuration files in the file system. No special tools for backup are provided because the file system and database tools (i.e. special backup programs) are sufficient for backup. There are two ways to extract content from the system:

Read Section 5.6.11 to learn about the dump utility which displays content from the database on standard out.

Read Section to learn about the dumpusers utility that writes all users, groups and rules managed in the Content Server into an XML file.

Read Section 5.6.12 to learn about the serverexport utility which stores content of the database in XML files.

In no way use these tools as a replacement for a database backup program. Clean up the system 

While working with the CoreMedia SCI system new content is produced/imported and old content becomes dispensable. 

Read the User Manual to learn about the Recycle Bin archive.

Read Section 5.6.2 to learn how to remove documents completely from the Recycle Bin and how to get rid of  unnecessary intermediate versions of documents.

Read Section to learn how to remove documents completely from the repository but keep in mind that the tool is intended for emergency cases only. Configure the system for "normal" use 

During the graphical installation of CoreMedia SCI all important properties can be set. If this has not been done sufficiently or changes become necessary,  read the following chapters to find property and configuration files.

Read Section 5.2.3 to learn how to set up a connection with the database.

Read Section 5.1.2 to learn how to provide the URL  for fetching the IOR of the servers

Read Section 5.2.2 to learn how to configure the files with the document types and license, the hostname and port of the server  (and more).

Read Section 5.2.5 to learn how to set up the MIME types.

Read Section 5.7.1.4 to learn how to configure the generator context.

Read Section 5.7.1.5 to learn how to configure the servlet container of the ADS.

Read Section to learn how to configure the Http Cache.

Read Section 5.8.1.3 to learn how to configure the editor. 

Read Section 5.8.1.1.1 to learn how to configure the language and the browser used (and many more features). Monitoring the system 

While using CoreMedia SCI, the correct operation of all components has to be controlled. If problems arise, learn to read log files for information about this problem.

Read Section 5.6.19 to learn how to configure and use the watchdog utility to control and restart the components of the system.

Read Section 5.1.3.1 to learn how to check the status of some components with the command cm <component> status. 

Read Section 5.1.5 to learn how to configure the log output of the components

Read Section to learn how to use JMX management for the components. Understanding the server system 

CoreMedia SCI is based on a distributed component model with separate Content Server, Master Live Server and optional Slave Live Server.

Read Chapter 2 for an overview of the system.

Read Section 5.1.2 to learn how the components communicate with each other.

Read Section 5.2.8 to learn how to start the servers.

Read Section 5.2 to learn all the rest about the servers.

Read Section 5.3.7 to learn how to administrate the Live Server Slaves.

