

 x x x x tracking.enable true/false true Whether the tracking component should gather information. Used for disabling an installed tracking component entirely, e.g. when reusing Analytics enabled templates in a project where tracking is not required. tracking.taglib.required true/false false Whether the Analytics taglib must be used to make a page view trackable during rendering. By default, the interceptor alone suffices to track a page view. Set to true, if you want have better control over the set of pages that is tracked and if you are sure that you only want to track page views delivered through JSPs. tracking.sampling.multiplier Integer 0 

The multiplier to be used in sampling: a value of 0 indicates that sampling should not be performed; a value of 1 indicates that all events should be used, but that sampling should already be prepared by setting appropriate cookies; a higher value indicates the fraction of events to use (e.g., a value of 5 indicates that only 20% of the page views should result in an event).

This property can be dynamically reconfigured using JMX.

To ensure the maximum quality of the generated statistics, this value should only be changed near midnight. tracking.sampling.multiplier.max Integer 16 

The maximum multiplier that is expected to be reported by a browser. Higher values are potential attempts to skew the statistics. Must be set at least as high as all multipliers used in the last hours.

This property can be dynamically reconfigured using JMX. tracking.sampling.multiplier.keep.delay Integer 2400 

The time for which the multiplier should be kept constant in a single session, in seconds. Should be longer than the session timeout configured in the Data Aggregator.

This property can be dynamically reconfigured using JMX. tracking.sampling.multiplier.cookie String smplm The name of a cookie that stores the multiplier to be used by a certain session. This cookie is short-lived. tracking.sampling.user.name.cookie String smplu The name of a cookie that stores the user name to be used for sampling. This cookie is very long-lived. tracking.sampling.cookie.domain String  The domain to be set in the sampling cookies. Leave empty to set no domain. tracking.sampling.cookie.path Path / The path to be set in the sampling cookies. Set to a path that includes all requests to your webapp or the tracking controller tracking.directory.incomplete Path analyticslog/incomplete/ The path to the directory that contains analytics logs for which no clock synchronization information has been gathered. tracking.directory.complete Path analyticslog/complete/ The path to the directory that contains analytics logs with clock synchronization information. tracking.max.lines.per.log int 2000 The maximum number of rows that is written into a single log file. Choosing this value too low will cause many temporary file to be generated. Choosing this value too high will lead to large transactions when writing the logs into the database. tracking.search.engine.detection... String  Properties with this prefix are used for configuring the external search engine detection. See section for details. tracking.page.data.extractor.pattern regular expression  The regular expression that is matched against the referrer URL by the default page data extractor. The first capturing group of the expression must match the numeric id of the referring content. tracking.page.data.extractor.view String DEFAULT The view that is returned by the default page data extractor. tracking.page.data.extractor.locale String  The locale that is returned by the default page data extractor. If empty, this indicates that the language of the target page should be used. tracking.filter.exclude.types.csv CSV string com.coremedia.cap.common.Blob A comma-separated list of type names that causes objects of these types to be excluded from event tracking; if empty, no types are excluded. Per default, all blobs are excluded from tracking, as identified by implementing the interface com.coremedia.cap.common.Blob. tracking.filter.include.types.csv CSV string  A comma-separated list of type names that objects of tracked events must match; if empty, no restriction applies. tracking.filter.exclude.type.pattern regular expression  A regular expression that causes objects with matching type name to be excluded from event tracking; if empty, no types are excluded.  tracking.filter.include.type.pattern regular expression  A regular expression that the type names of objects of tracked events must match; if empty, no restriction applies. tracking.filter.exclude.view.pattern regular expression  A regular expression that causes matching views to be excluded from event tracking; if empty, no views are excluded. tracking.filter.include.view.pattern regular expression  A regular expression that the views of tracked events must match; if empty, no restriction applies. tracking.filter.exclude.locale.pattern regular expression  A regular expression that causes matching locales to be excluded from event tracking; if empty, no locales are excluded. tracking.filter.include.locale.pattern regular expression  A regular expression that the locales of tracked events must match; if empty, no restriction applies. tracking.filter.include.default.view true/false true Whether to include the default view into event tracking. tracking.multi.site true/false/auto auto Whether the convention of treating folders immediately below the root folder as the site should apply for the default site extractor; use auto in the content management environment to reuse the server configuration only. tracking.robots.db.location Path /WEB-INF/analytics-robots.db Points to the robots-db file that contains robots. Recommended file can be found at http://www.robotstxt.org. Other database files containing robot information as plain text are supported as well. tracking.robots.db.idPattern regular expression ^robot-id:(.*)$ A regular expression that is used to search the analytics-robots.db file for robot ids used for detection. tracking.robots.robotsCSV CSV string (see analytics-robots.db for details) A String containing additional robot ids not contained in analytics-robots.db file in CSV format. tracking.robots.wildcardsCSV CSV string (see analytics-robots.db for details) A String containing wildcards used for robot detection in CSV format. tracking.robots.browsersCSV CSV string (see analytics-robots.db for details) A String containing browsers used to skip robot detection in CSV format. tracking.ip.drop.bits int 0 The number of bits to drop from an IP address during tracking, if that is needed for privacy due to applicable law.

