

The term 'analytics dashboard' comprises a visualization and interactive drill down of long-term statistical CMS-related performance and system status data. The report data is being collected from CMS 2006 content management systems (feeding content play-out and content consumption-oriented reports) as well as from CMS 2006 content delivery systems (feeding editorial system status reports). CoreMedia provides the customer with an extensible set of general CMS-related reports and with a toolkit which enables them to easily extend existing reports or add new ones when needed.

A user¿s entry point is a customizable analytics dashboard (see Dashboard-View), which provides a quick overview of several reports. If desired, a user may open a detail view for a refined report visualization which allows interactive drill down (see Report-Detail-View).

Open the Analytics Dashboard

The Analytics Dashboard is  a web based application. Enter the URI below in your browser. Ask your administrator for the hostname and port of the CoreMedia Analytics installation and replace <hostname> and <port> with this values:

http://<hostname>:<port>/analytics/dashboard/view

The Analytics Dashboard opens up, possibly after going through a login dialog. In figure you can find an example screenshot. The actual dashboard at your site may contain more or less reports, depending on the configuration of the Analytics Dashboard.

Dashboard and detail report views

In the dashboard, reports are organized by views. Views structure the information reported to a given user. One view represents a (logical) aspect of reported information, e.g. the overall performance of a site, searches and search terms, page views or a categorization of content. In the dashboard user interface, each view is shown as a tab. By clicking on the tab, the corresponding view is displayed to the user.

A view is composed of one or more (usually three and more) reports. Each report is visualized in a report box with a report title (1) on top, a report sentence (2) describing the data shown and a report chart (3), see screenshot below. Clicking the ¿Details¿¿ link opens a detail view of the selected report.

