

This section describes how to feedback the 'Top # Viewed Pages' and similar Analytics data to the live web site.

The CoreMedia Analytics product provides web site operators (Administrators, Controllers, Managers and Content Editors) with information like the ¿Top # Viewed Pages on Site S in Category C during Time Interval T¿. Traditionally, this information is provided as so-called Analytics Aggregated Data (AAD) to administrators, controllers, managers, content editors, and software agents by means of Analytics Dashboard reports: The reports are role-specific, they are rendered as HTML pages with chart images, as PDF, Excel or XML documents. 

The Analytics product encompasses the Analytics Feedback CAE extension which allows report to be integrated and customized for live CAE pages. This way, report results like the top 10 viewed pages of a selected category can be placed in CAE-delivered pages. It is important here to understand that the report results - given e.g. as a sorted list of content beans - will be integrated and can be visualized using custom CAE templates. This Analytics Feedback extension will be described in the first part of this section.

An alternative is to read Analytics Data directly from the Analytics Database in live CAEs. The database schema is open and documented in the Analytics Developer Manual. This will be described in the later part of this section.

Adding Analytics Reports to the Live CAE's

The easiest way to integrate Analytics Feedback data into the web site is by integrating reports into the live CAE application. The reports are encapsulated as beans of type AnalyticsReportDataProvider. Each configures an analytics report with report parameters and provides the report results as a list of String keys/id or Content Beans (depending on the report). The latter can be used in the web site templates just like editorial content. The report parameters (time range, rank range, site, category, etc.) can be configured in the report data provider bean via Spring property settings or via Structs (see the CAE developer manual for the latter). The report data providers can be added to / injected into Content Beans to enhance them with Analytics report result content.

In order to use Analytics reports on the live side, the following conditions must be met and steps taken:

Preliminary

The Analytics Database should reside on the publication side, i.e. the same side as the live CAEs. This is required since the live CAEs need to access the Analytics Database directly. In almost all cases a firewall is set up to inhibit this access direction (from the publication to the production side). If the Analytics Database does not reside on the publication side, access from the live CAEs to the Analytics Database must be allowed.





