

Installation

Installing the User Feedback Plug-in is as simple as extracting the SSE archive and copy the plug-in files to the Starter Kit web application directory. The following steps should lead you through the process of installing. Additional information may be found in the readme.txt provided in the root folder of the plugin zip.

Prerequisites



A working installation of the Starter Kit web application. Typically, you will add the User Feedback Plug-in to both the content management and the delivery web applications.


A database schema for the SSE repository exists. The default user name and password used in the configuration is ¿sk52sse¿.

Installation


Extract the SSE archive coremedia-sse-<version>.zip to a directory of your choice.


Copy the contents of the extracted directory /sk-userfeedback-plugin to the web application's root directory /starterkit. This will add the plug-in classes, additional libraries and customized JSP templates to the /starterkit web application.
Note: Some Starter Kit JSP templates may be replaced during this process and some JAR files may already be present in your Starter Kit installation.


As the User Feedback Plug-in requires database access, copy the appropriate JDBC driver to the web application's /WEB-INF/lib directory.


Deploy the extracted SSE Management Views web application /sse-editor to a servlet container. Install the SSE Management Views only on the content management side. Consider using a separate servlet container instance for the management views, instead of installing it along with the Starter Kit web application.


Optional: In order to add user comments to the search engine index, it will be necessary to add the SSE feeder extensions to the standard CAE feeder (which may be installed as part of the Starter Kit). The process of installing the SSE feeder extensions and configuring the CAE feeder for this scenario is described in the "CoreMedia 2008: Social Software Extension" manual.


Remove the directory jakarta-tomcat/work from your starterkit installation if it exists. This guarantees that the changes made by the user feedback plug-in are compiled properly.

