

 x x x x analyticsdashboard.db.driver String  The JDBC driver class used for connecting to the Analytics Database analyticsdashboard.db.url String  The JDBC URL used for connecting to the Analytics Database analyticsdashboard.db.user String  The user name used for connecting to the Analytics Database analyticsdashboard.db.password String  The password used for connecting to the Analytics Database analyticsdashboard.db.database oracle, db2, mssql  The database type for the Analytics Database analyticsdashboard.repository.url String  The url of the content management system which hosts the repository and provides user authentication. Per default, the url has the following format: http://<servername>:<port>/coremedia/ior analyticsdashboard.repository.user String  The service user name that can be used to establish a connection to the repository. Per default, this is 'webserver'. analyticsdashboard.repository.password String  The service user password. analyticsdashboard.repository.domain String  The service user domain. analyticsdashboard.timemodel.country
 String country of the JVM default locale The country for determining the calendar to use when accessing the Analytics Database. This must be the same value that is also configured for the Data Aggregator. analyticsdashboard.timemodel.language String language of the JVM default locale The language for determining the calendar to use when accessing the Analytics Database. This must be the same value that is also configured for the Data Aggregator. analyticsdashboard.timemodel.timezone String JVM default timezone The timezone for determining the calendar to use when accessing the Analytics Database. This must be the same value that is also configured for the Data Aggregator. analyticsdashboard.caepreview.prefix String  The URL prefix for the preview controller of the preview CAE for rendering a link from the page dashboard to the preview page. A typical value might be http://<host>:8001/<webapp>/servlet/preview with appropriate substitutions. By default, no link will be rendered. analyticsdashboard.rank.rangesCVS Comma-separated integers 3,5,10,15,20 The possible numbers of entries for ranked ("top-10") reports, separated by commas. Values of 999999999 and up will be rendered as "all" in the dashboard. analyticsdashboard.rank.default Integer 10 The default number of entries to show for ranked ("top-10") reports. analyticsdashboard.robots.merge.count Integer 5 Pie chart reports containing more robot entries than defined here will be merged using the percentage bound defined below analyticsdashboard.robots.merge.percentage Double 10.0 Relative bound used to merge robots for better visualization in pie chart reports. All robots that have less than the defined value will be merged to one pie segment.

