

 x x x x tracking.image.include.referrer true/false true Whether tracking images should report the referrer to the current page. This is necessary if you want to generate statistics on referrers or on external searches, but it enlarges the rendered page. tracking.image.include.uri true/false false Whether tracking images should report the URI to the current page. Normally this is not needed, because the page is sufficiently identified by the rendered object, its view and locale. tracking.uri.write.prefix String /<webapp>/servlet/tracker The prefix for generating image URIs for the tracking images that are not supposed to be cacheable, i.e., images that are actually used for tracking. It is suffixed by the image selection data and the payload data when the taglib builds a tracking image. This prefix should point at the tracking controller. It should be an absolute URI. For example, http://www.mysite.com/myapp/servlet/tracker might be a typical value. Take URL rewriting into account when setting this value. If unset or empty, a reference to /servlet/tracker in the current web application context will be used instead. tracking.uri.cacheable.write.prefix String the value of tracking.uri.write.prefix The prefix for generating image URIs for the tracking images that are supposed to be cacheable, i.e., images that are not used for tracking. This URI may be chosen separately so that a cache in front of the CAE can infer cachability more easily. In any case, the URI must ultimately resolve to the tracking controller, which will then deliver the images and other cacheable fragments. tracking.uri.parse.prefix String /tracker The part of the image URIs between the end of the name of the web application context and the image selection data. This string is used by the tracking controller to parse the request URI. tracking.resource.prefix String /WEB-INF/tracker-resources/ The path to the images to be delivered by the tracking controller. In the specified folder you can place additional images to be delivered as tracking images. Single-pixel images with a specified color are generated on the fly, so that this property is rarely changed. tracking.cacheable.duration Integer 3600 The time after which a response that the tracking controller considers cacheable should expire, in seconds. The tracking controller will set the HTTP response headers appropriately. JavaScript code for tracking is also made cacheable for the given time. When setting this value too high, updated code might not become available in time.

