

Regardless of which deployment from section you chose, there is a number of required configurations tasks that have to be performed. They are summarized in the following. You will find that the three recurring topics are database configuration, timezone configuration, and HTTP references to other components, but there a few other aspects to consider.

It is assumed that you have installed all components needed for your deployment. It is assumed that you have made the basic decisions regarding the configuration. For details of the mentioned configuration properties, see the section on Analytics in the Administration and Operation Manual. This section is only intended as an overview and checklist.

Data Aggregator

If you want to connect the Workflow Server hosting the Data Aggregator to the Master Live Server, make sure to set workflow.server.allow.live=true in the file workflowserver.properties. Make sure to set the property cap.server.workflow.server.url in the file contentserver.properties of the Master Live Server correctly. Obtain a license that supports a Workflow Server in the delivery environmen.
Configure the Analytics Database properties in the file workflowserver.properties and provide a database driver in lib/.
Configure the URLs of the log providers (the tracking CAEs) using the properties workflow.server.managers.aggregator.logprovider.<n>.url.
Depending on the tracking method you chose from section, you may have to set the property workflow.server.managers.aggregator.allow.rehinting.by.source.
Configure the timezone to be used when generating reports using the properties workflow.server.managers.aggregator.timezone, .language and .country (implicitly determining the start of the week, the start of the day, and daylight saving time).
If you want to import search logs of the CoreMedia Search Engine, you have to configure the properties starting with workflow.server.managers.aggregator.search.log. It is also necessary to provide a shell script that moves the logs into the Data Aggregator installation.
If you do not want to keep historical Analytics data around forever, set the various purge delays to match your requirements.

Object Analyzer

Configure the content repository in the file proactiveengine.properties.
Configure the Analytics Database and provide a database driver in lib/.
If you have decided to connect the Object Analyzer to a Live Server (which is not recommended), make sure to adapt the multi-site setting in the file objectanalyzer-trigger.xml.

Delivery CAEs

Verify that you are really installing the tracking extension with the delivery CAEs (and only those).
In the file tracking.properties, configure the multi-site status of your isntallation using hte property tracking.multi.site. Set the property to true, if and only if your Content Management Server has multi-site publishing enabled.
If you have decided to use sampling for your tracking CAE, configure the properties whose names start with tracking.sampling as appropriate.
At your option, configure the placement of the Analytics log files using the properties whose names start with tracking.directory.

Preview CAEs

You must only adapt the preview CAEs, if you have decided to use In-Site Analytics or if you have decided to use the Analytics taglib although you do not need In-Site Analytics, having read section.

Verify that you are really installing the In-Site Analytics extension with the preview CAEs (and only those).
Configure the Analytics Database in the file overlay.properties and provide a database driver in WEB-INF/lib/.
Configure the timezone to be used when generating reports using the properties timemodel.timezone, .language and .country, matching the timezone configured for the Data Aggregator.
Configure the hyperlink to the Analytics Dashboard using the property overlay.dashboard.uri.prefix.

Analytics Dashboard

Configure the content repository in the file analyticsdashboard.properties.
Configure the Analytics Database and provide a database driver in WEB-INF/lib/.
Configure the timezone to be used when generating reports using the properties analyticsdashboard.timemodel.timezone, .language and .country, matching the timezone configured for the Data Aggregator.
Configure the hyperlink to the preview CAEs for individual pages using the property analyticsdashboard.caepreview.prefix. If you do so, make sure the the bean previewController or an equivalent is still mapped in the preview CAE.

Analytics Feedback

Configure the Analytics Database in the file analytics-feedback.properties and provide a database driver in WEB-INF/lib/.
Configure the timezone to be used when generating reports using the properties analyticsdashboard.timemodel.timezone, .language and .country, matching the timezone configured for the Data Aggregator.