

There are some more workflow features:

Suspend/ Resume workflow

You have the chance to suspend a workflow and resume later. The task is not offered to somebody else. If the task is being edited in this moment, changes cannot be made, the task cannot be delegated or canceled. The workflow can be resumed at any time.
Choose the workflow to be paused from the task/workflow window.
Choose File | Pause in menu or tool bar.

3* The workflow is paused. 

To continue the workflow:
Choose the workflow to be continued from the task/workflow window.
Choose File | Continue in menu or tool bar.

3* The workflow is continued. 

Terminate workflow

The composer of a workflow (or an administrator) can terminate a workflow. Approved resources remain approved.
Choose the workflow to be terminated from the task/workflow window.
Choose File | Terminate in menu or tool bar.

3* The workflow is terminated. 

Reject task

A task in the 3-step workflow is automatically offered all users of the matching group. You can reject a task, it is removed from your overview window then.
Choose the task to be terminated from the task/workflow window.
Choose File | Reject in menu or tool bar.

3* The task is removed from your overview window. If all other users had already rejected it, and you do so too, it would be offered again to all other users.

Return task

If you have accepted a task and are not entitled to, return it. All changes made by you so far are saved.
Choose File | Return in menu or tool bar.

3* The task is offered to all other entitled users.

Delegate Task

You might have accepted a task which might be better performed by another user. In such cases, you can delegate the task. The task will automatically be accepted by the selected user.
Switch to the workflow window.
Insert a comment in the "comment" field if suitable.
Choose File | Delegate in menu or tool bar.
Select the user from a dialog box displaying all matching users and click [Select].

3* The task disappears from your workflow window and is automatically accepted by this user. If you send back a task to the composer, an error message pops up because approval cannot be done by composers.

