


3# 



For every field defined in the document type Dish a field can be seen in the new window. Enter a name, price, description and calories for the fish dish. 


Now a picture should be added showing the trout. 



Create a Picture document first. Go back to the main editor window, click with the right mouse button on the Fish directory and select new|Page from the context menu. 



Name the picture e.g. SpicyTrout_pic and click [okay]. The Picture window pops up. 



Enter a name for the picture in the name field. 



Click with the right mouse button on the image field. Select load from the context menu and load a jpeg-picture with the trout from the filesystem. 



Now go back to the window for the fish dish and click the right mouse button on the field Pictures. Select Insert with dialog. Select the picture SpicyTrout_pic from the Fish folder and click [okay]. The first complete dish has now been created. Please create some more dishes now, with at least one dish in each category.


The last document to be created is the Page document. This has to be placed in the main folder MenuSite. 



Create a Page document first. Go back to the main editor window, click with the right mouse button on the MenuSite folder and select new|Page from the context menu. After providing a name like "Food of the Day" some of the dishes can be added as links: 



Click the right mouse button on the content field and select insert (with selection dialog). Now select a dish from one of the categories. You can add several dishes to the content field. 



Now you have to provide a title image for the Page. Click with the right mouse button on the image field. Select load from the context menu and load a jpeg picture with the Logo from the filesystem 


Before the Website can be seen, templates have to be created. Templates describe how the content will actually be displayed. This is the most complicated part, as programming with JSP (Java Server Pages) and HTML (hyper text markup language) is needed.



