Project Report: comments from Sylvia

- Kap. 1.2 IR sollte erst in einem spateren Kapitel erlautert werden (Grundlagen). Dabei darauf achten, dass Du nicht "we have implemented" schreibst. 
Das ist doch Deine Arbeit, oder? Ich wurde vorschlagen, den ersten Satz zu streichen.
- Kap. 1.4 Outline wiederholt den schon voherigen Text und konnte gestrichen werden
- Du erwahnst in Kap. 1.3. Tag cloud nur. Ich vermisse, was man unter Tag cloud und unter Tag cloud control versteht. 
Dies konntest Du z.B. an den Satz dranhangen. Tag cloud is ... and tag cloud control means ...
Mir fehlt da noch die EInleitung zu term frequency $tf$ und inverse termn frequency $idf$.


TODOS:
- LSA parses 13 < 15 docs
- IteratorFactory cannot find "C"
- create a similarity matrix for the clusters and clustering (check Clusterizer)
- debug tagcloud
- copy files after LSA has run to c:\tmp

Project Ideas
--------------
1. At the first login to DocMachine, a cloud with the most popular tags is displayed.
2. Have a website as a frontend, where to enter any search strings, and display my results and Tag cloud.


Project TODOs
--------------
1. - fix the warnings and errors displayed by sonar: mvn org.codehaus.sonar:sonar-maven3-plugin:2.2:sonar -DskipTests=true
   - Find Bugs
2. Skip creating the input files, parse text from DocMachine directly into a single file used for LSA.
Next step will be to parse texts from DocMachine directly into LSA.
3. move all strings from projects to properties file and load them from there
4. Research what can be done for scalabiilty and performance - should txts be parsed in a file, or used from memory?
   Research how parallelism can be implemented if txts are parsed in-memory. Describe in report.
5. discard terms that occur only once - filter termfrequency, create a filter when indexing with lucene, and exclude
terms occuring only once
6. create a test suite - a central runnable place to call all tests (or the chosen ones).
   configure a test suite for the cluster and topic identification evaluation. 
7. static properties form summarizer need to be made available on the classpath of tagcloud webapp - the properties file,
the term-space file, and the document-space matrix.
8. add lucene to search results delivery - highlighting?
9. remove the unused libs from summarizer\lib (jama,colt,etc.)


Experiments
-------------
1. i need a set of documents with several well-defined categories
2. i nees a set of queries
3. i need a definition of precision/recall measure

Report
-------------
1. makecloud.com - generate tag cloud from search results
http://www.makecloud.com/

EXAMPLES
-------------
1. tagcloud with opencms
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2192186/adding-a-tag-cloud-to-an-opencms-website
2. tagcloud with lucene
http://richardfriedman.blogspot.com/2007/06/creating-tag-cloud.html
3. a lot about tag clouds
http://www.joelamantia.com/tag-clouds/text-clouds-a-new-form-of-tag-cloud